## 1

### a
- clang's `-Ofast` enables `-ffast-math`, in addition to other things.
- `-O1 -ffast-math` seems closer to gcc's `-ffast-math`.

- gcc with `-ffast-math` catches the exceptions.
- clang with `-Ofast` or `-O1 -ffast-math` exceptions are not caught in any of
  them
- If the expression is moved to a function then `clang -O1 -ffast-math` raises
  the exceptions.

### b
- clang optimized `double nnan = -0.0 / 0.0` to a single assignment (of 0) even
  without `-Ofast`. To work around this I explicitly assigned the two values to
variables first.
- With `-Ofast` clang optimizes everything down to a single print call.

- gcc
  - No flags
    - prints 0
    - exception caught
  - `-ffast-math`
    - prints 1
    - exception caught
- clang
  - No flags
    - prints 0
    - exception caught
  - `-Ofast`
    - prints 0
    - Exception not caught

- What is this intended to illustrate about signed zeroes? If the negative sign
  is removed the same behavior is observed.

## 3
- `exception_fast_only.c` attempts to only hit an overflow if optimized via
  factorization.
  - With no optimizations it returns a number and does not raise an exception.
  - With `gcc -ffast-math` or `clang -O1 -ffast-math` it returns inf and raises
    overflow. IR shows expected optimization.
  - With `clang -Ofast` it returns inf and does not raise.
    - Skips the actual calculation 

## Meeting
- a * x - b * x
- a = -b very large
- Detect all exceptions, not just one
- How to find source location of exception?
- Instrument unoptimized IR
- Given P, is there any difference in exceptions trace with P'?
- "Oracle" provides inputs. Could be Ariadne, or search in an interval.

### TODO
- Detect all exceptions
- Instrument IR to label every fp operation
- Write script which takes in a source file and reports which lines are not
  equivalent in the optimized version
